Title: Senior ML Scientist Take-Home coding task: Robust Toxicity Classification 
Scenario: We are processing high-volume user comments. We need a custom, lightweight 
Transformer model to flag toxic comments in our data. We cannot use off-the-shelf pre-
trained weights because we need full control over the architecture for future optimisations. 
The Data: Use the Civil Comments Dataset. Treat target >= 0.5 as "Toxic". 
Requirements: 
1. Custom Architecture: Implement a small Transformer using pre-layer 
normalisation from scratch using standard PyTorch layers (like nn.Linear, 
nn.MultiheadAttention, nn.LayerNorm, etc.) 
2. Engineering & MLOps: 
◦Implement a training loop that can be run on one or multiple GPUs if 
available on other machines. 
◦Optional: Include a Dockerfile and structure the code as a proper Python 
package (setup.py/pyproject.toml). 
3. Data Pipeline: 
◦Efficient data loading (demonstrate your choice of handling tokenisation on 
the fly vs. pre-processing). 
◦Strict train/val/test split or stratified sampling. 
Deliverables: 
A light-weight zip file containing:  
• A well organised repo including the code (including a readme file with instructions 
on how to use the repo, but no data or models should be included). 
• A short report.md explaining: 
◦Explain choice of architecture, Layer Normalisation and Loss function and 
hyper-parameters (vocab size, embedding dim, number of layers, etc.). 
◦How you handled the class imbalance. 
◦Optional: A "Post-Mortem": If you had to deploy this to handle 10k requests/
second, what would you change? 
Note: You are encouraged to use AI coding assistants. You have 7 days from receiving this task to 
complete it and submit your zip folder. During the follow up interview, we will look at your code on 
your screen, and go through it together and look at the git history and potentially ask to make small 
changes. We evaluate it based on the decisions you made and your ability to explain why the 
generated code is correct. The model does not need to be trained nor use the whole dataset, and we 
will not judge based on the model performance, but it needs to run and work without errors. We are 
keen to see your choices, and the logic behind them and discuss the model performance metrics. 
